lessons.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Lessons learnt
permalink: /lessons
sequence: 9
lessons:
  - title: Lessons learnt
    subtitle: Good practices to continue for future projects
    list:
      - name: Buy electronics modules for <code>V1.0</code> <em>Make it work, make it right, make it better</em>
      - name: Ensure main BOM components are available from vendors before schematic or layout
      - name: Check pin, pitch, manufacturer part number, function before buying BOM parts
      - name: Do a power tree analysis starting with power source before the schematic design
      - name: Test out paper mockups for mechanical dimensions
      - name: Do a mechanical consideration before laying out the footprint
      - name: Design a power on/off switch to start/stop using the battery
      - name: Leave out the module's on-board LED as a possible separate indicator E.g. Not linking <code>GPIO02</code> to <code>EN</code> for the shift register
      - name: Don't use main chip's power output to enable other components, use another GPIO pin. E.g. Not linking <code>5V</code> on WeMos to <code>Vin</code> of a sensor or shift register
      - name: Ensure the mechanical housing has an opening above any environmental sensors E.g humidity, UV index, air pressure
      - name: Make 2 units, not just 1 especially for non-interactive projects - one for deployment, one for iteration/testing
  - title: V2.0
    subtitle: For next iteration
    list:
      - name: No more modules
      - name: Reduce total BOM components
      - name: Do not use ESP8266's LED GPIO pin
      - name: Do not use ESP8266's <code>5V</code> pin to power other components
      - name: Increase battery life by cutting off power to the sensors during sleep
      - name: Device an easy way to erase on board WiFi credentials and cloud connectivity details without the need to flash and re-flash the erasing firmware E.g. press a button
---

Commit message:

[docs] Add lesson for version number tagging

lessons.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Lessons learnt
permalink: /lessons
sequence: 9
lessons:
  - title: Lessons learnt
    subtitle: Good practices to continue for future projects
    list:
      - name: Buy electronics modules for <code>V1.0</code> <em>Make it work, make it right, make it better</em>
      - name: Ensure main BOM components are available from vendors before schematic or layout
      - name: Check pin, pitch, manufacturer part number, function before buying BOM parts
      - name: Do a power tree analysis starting with power source before the schematic design
      - name: Test out paper mockups for mechanical dimensions
      - name: Do a mechanical consideration before laying out the footprint
      - name: Design a power on/off switch to start/stop using the battery
      - name: Leave out the module's on-board LED as a possible separate indicator E.g. Not linking <code>GPIO02</code> to <code>EN</code> for the shift register
      - name: Don't use main chip's power output to enable other components, use another GPIO pin. E.g. Not linking <code>5V</code> on WeMos to <code>Vin</code> of a sensor or shift register
      - name: Ensure the mechanical housing has an opening above any environmental sensors E.g humidity, UV index, air pressure
      - name: Make 2 units, not just 1 especially for non-interactive projects - one for deployment, one for iteration/testing
      - name: Tag the repository with the version number when the PCB is sent out for manufacturing
  - title: V2.0
    subtitle: For next iteration
    list:
      - name: No more modules
      - name: Reduce total BOM components
      - name: Do not use ESP8266's LED GPIO pin
      - name: Do not use ESP8266's <code>5V</code> pin to power other components
      - name: Increase battery life by cutting off power to the sensors during sleep
      - name: Device an easy way to erase on board WiFi credentials and cloud connectivity details without the need to flash and re-flash the erasing firmware E.g. press a button
      - name: Tag the repository with the version number when the PCB is sent out for manufacturing
---
